sqlite3 pet_database.db

CREATE TABLE cats (
    id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, 
    name TEXT, 
    age INTERGER
    );

  # Use the CREATE TABLE command to create a new table called "cats"
  # Include a list of column names along with the type of data they will be storing. 
  # TEXT means we'll be storing plain old text, INTEGER means we'll store a number.

  # Note that the use of capitalization is arbitrary, but it is a convention to 
  # help separate the SQL commands from the names we make up for our tables and columns.

  # Every table we create, regardless of the other column names and data types, should be 
  # defined with an id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY column, including data type and primary key designation. 
  # Our SQLite database tables must be indexed by a number. We want each row in our table to have a number, 
  # which we'll call "id", just like in an Excel spreadsheet. Numbering our table rows makes our data that 
  # much easier to access, update, and organize. SQLite comes with a data type designation called "Primary Key". 
  # Primary keys are unique and auto-incrementing, meaning they start at 1 and each new row automatically gets 
  # assigned the next numeric value.

  # TO CHECK
  # To get a complete list of commands, you can type .help into the sqlite prompt.


  # To list all the tables in the database we'll use the .tables command. 
  # Type it into the sqlite prompt and hit enter, you should get:

  # => sqlite> .tables
        cats

  # ALTER TABLE (Adding, Removing and Renaming Columns) 
 <!-- ALTER TABLE cats ADD COLUMN breed TEXT; -->

  # => sqlite> .schema
  # => CREATE TABLE cats (
        id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, 
        name TEXT, 
        age INTERGER, 
        breed TEXT
        );

  # INSERT INTO (Allow us to insert a row of data into our table)

  # UPDATE (Allow us to change the data attributes in a row)

  # DELETE (Allow us ti remove a row from the database table)

  # DROP TABLE (Deleting a Table)
  
  